# Wave Function Collapse Partitioning (WFC-P) for Maximum Cut

This repository contains the code used in the creation and analysis of the **Wave Function Collapse Partitioning (WFC-P)** metaheuristic for the **Maximum Cut** problem. The full research paper by Artem Gryniv and David Perkins can be found [here](https://github.com/ArtemGryniv/Wave-Function-Collapse-Partitioning/blob/49e5aa612dac39a172620c0e259ea3a16026265b/MaxCutPaper.pdf). The research is currently being expanded upon by students and professors at Colgate University. 

## Algorithms

All algorithms were implemented in the scientific computing language **Julia**. The repository includes four Julia files, each containing a different algorithm:

- **WFC-P on weighted graphs** – [`Weighted WFC-P.jl`](https://github.com/ArtemGryniv/Wave-Function-Collapse-Partitioning/blob/322002d73a3dd7b12f5f0102ec4251224bf5983e/Weighted%20WFC-P.jl)
- **WFC-P on unweighted graphs** – [`Unweighted WFC-P.jl`](https://github.com/ArtemGryniv/Wave-Function-Collapse-Partitioning/blob/322002d73a3dd7b12f5f0102ec4251224bf5983e/Unweighted%20WFC-P.jl)
- **Local Search on unweighted graphs** – [`Local Search MC.jl`](https://github.com/ArtemGryniv/Wave-Function-Collapse-Partitioning/blob/322002d73a3dd7b12f5f0102ec4251224bf5983e/Local%20Search%20MC.jl)
- **Greedy algorithm on unweighted graphs** – [`Greedy Algorithm MC.jl`](https://github.com/ArtemGryniv/Wave-Function-Collapse-Partitioning/blob/322002d73a3dd7b12f5f0102ec4251224bf5983e/Greedy%20Algorithm%20MC.jl)

## Graph Generation

The unweighted algorithm files include functions to generate various types of unweighted graphs:
- **Random graphs**
- **Clustered graphs**
- **Cycle graphs**
- **Regular graphs**
- **Dense graphs**

A **complete graph** can be created using the `make_dense_graph()` function and setting the edge probability to `1` or greater.

## Benchmarking

Each Julia file contains a call to the `benchmark` function on the last line, which displays the performance metrics of the respective algorithm.

## Graph Data

All test graphs are stored as `.txt` files in the following folders:

- **`downloaded_graphs/`** – Contains weighted graphs from:
  - [TSPLIB](http://comopt.ifi.uni-heidelberg.de/software/TSPLIB95/XML-TSPLIB/instances/)
  - [BQP](http://bqp.cs.uni-bonn.de/library/html/instances.html)

  If these graphs were not available as `.txt` files, they were downloaded as `.xml` files and converted using [`TSP Converting.py`](https://github.com/ArtemGryniv/Wave-Function-Collapse-Partitioning/blob/main/TSP%20Converting.py). This Python script converts `.xml` files into `.txt` format as:
  ```
  vertexOne vertexTwo edgeWeight
  ```

- **`input_graphs/`** – Contains all unweighted graphs generated by one of the five graph-creation functions in the unweighted Julia files.

## Contribute & Connect

I encourage further testing of **WFC-P** and benchmarking it against your own or other **Maximum Cut** algorithms. Additionally, if you're interested in combinatorial optimization, feel free to drawn upon **WFC-P** for inspiration.

If you have any questions or would like to share your findings, I'd love to hear from you!

📧 **Email:** [artem.gryniv@icloud.com](mailto:artem.gryniv@icloud.com)
